# Decentralized Control Synthesis for Air Traffic Management in UAM

## Suda Bharadwaj, Steven Carr, Natasha Neogi, Ufuk Topcu

Visualization tools for showing urban air mobility (UAM) traffic management problems. 


### Examples on simulated airpsaces

In these simulations the <strong>vehicles</strong> are indicated by the following colors:
<ul>
<li>Red - Landing vehicle, </li>
<li>Yellow - Allocated (assigned a landing or pass-through) vehicle, </li>
<li>Orange - Loitering vehicle awaiting allocation,</li>
<li>Green - Moving unallocated vehicle.</li>
</ul>

Furthermore the region inside of a <strong>vertihub</strong> is indicated by a colored ring, the colors have the following meanings
<ul>
<li>Blue - Not a scheduling vertihub (uncontrolled regions),</li>
<li>Green - Three unallocated slots,</li>
<li>Yellow - Two unallocated slots, </li>
<li>Orange - One unallocated slots,</li>
<li>Red - No free slots (vertihub cannot control any more vehicles).</li>
</ul>


##### <em> Airspace with few overlapping vertihbus  </em>

With sparsely interacting vertihubs, the vehicles tend to loiter around the edges of a vertihub as they attempt to either land or pass-through.

{% include youtube_sparse.html %}

#####  <em> Airspace with few but closely overlapping vertihubs </em>
Guerreiro, N.M., Butler, R.W., Maddalon, J.M., Hagen, G.E.: Mission
planner algorithm for urban air mobility–initial performance character-
ization. In: AIAA Aviation 2019 Forum. p. 3626 (2019)
With closely interacting vertihubs, the vehicles tend to loiter around the top vertihub as it waits to clear additional vehicles to open slots. Additionally as vehicles leave a region they often need to loiter as they do not have permission to move through the new vertihub.

{% include youtube_interacting.html %}

##### <em> Airspace with many overlapping vertihbus </em>

When the vertihubs are fully connected, the vehicles tend to loiter as they take-off, waiting for permissions to move. When permission is granted, the vehicles rarely loiter until they land.

{% include youtube_all.html %}

#### Vertihub Size and Placement Analysis

Although this work does not deal with the optimal placement/size for a network of vertihubs - we provide this analysis to help understand the mechanics of the hand-offs and what behaviors are generated by different network structures.
The video below compares the same set of vehicles and their missions and overall network specification for two different subdivisions of the airspace.
The placement of the vertihubs was generated by performing k-means clustering on data taken from NASA Langley in conjunction with partners performing for UAM demand studies [1]. We provide a simple comparison for the systems generated by two values of k - k=10 (shown first) and k=20 (shown second). The average vehicle loiter times will differ greatly by vehicle missions and specifications - in the provided example the average loiter times per vehicle are 23.74s and 25.35s for the 10 vertihub and 20 vertihub scenarios respectively. For the case of the 20 vertihbus and this set of vehicles, the additional permissions required slightly outweigh the extra airspace fidelity, which results in approximately 6% longer loiter times.

{% include youtube_compare.html %}


[1] Guerreiro, N.M., Butler, R.W., Maddalon, J.M., Hagen, G.E.: Mission planner algorithm for urban air mobility–initial performance characterization. In: AIAA Aviation 2019 Forum. p. 3626 (2019)
